25-04-2025 10:39:24

Status : #child

Tags : [[AWS - Cloud Practitioner]]

# Digital Transformation

1. Innovation waves - phenomenon closely related connected to technology life cycles.
	1. The latest wave is Cloud Technology
	2. Common pattern of a wave change of supply and demand
2. Burning Platform 
	1. When a company abandons old technology for new technology 
	2. Uncertainty of success can be motivated by fear
3. [Digital Transformation checklist](https://aws.amazon.com/government-education/digital-transformation/?public-sector-resources-dt.sort-by=item.additionalFields.sortDate&public-sector-resources-dt.sort-order=desc) - refer the pdf
4. Evolution of computing - General Computing (ec2) -> GPU computing (AWS Inferentiare) -> Quantum Computing (AWS Bracket)
5. Amazon Bracket - free tier 1 hour of quantum circuit simulation for first 12 months

# Benefits of Cloud

Summary of reasons why organization would adopt or migrate to utilizing public cloud, here are the [six advantages of cloud by AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview/six-advantages-of-cloud-computing.html) which are in sub-bullets and the others are newly added by AWS

- **Agility**
	- Increase speed and agility - Launch resources within few clicks in minutes.
- **Pay-as-you go pricing**
	- Trade capital expense for variable expense - Pay On-Demand, meaning there is no upfront cost and you pay for only what you consume.
- **Economy of scale**
	- Benefit from massive economies of scale - sharing the cost with other customers to bet unbeatable savings
- **Global Reach**
	- Go global in minutes - Deploy your app in multiple regions around the world with a few clicks. Provide low latency and better experience for your customers at minimal cost.
- **Security**
- **Reliability**
	- Stop spending money on running and maintaining data centers -  Focus on your own customers, developing and configuring your applications.
- **High** **Availability**
- **Scalability**
	- Benefit from massive economies of scale - Scale up or down to meet current need, Launch and destroy services whenever you need.
- **Elasticity**

Additional Cloud Architecture benefits are,
- **Fault** **Tolerance**
- **Disaster** **Recovery**

## 7 Advantages of Cloud
1. **Cost Effective** - You pay for what you consume, no up-front cost. On-demand pricing or Pay-as-you-go (PAYG) with thousands of customers sharing the cost of the resources.
2. **Global** - Launch workloads anywhere in the world, Just choose a region.
3. **Secure** - Cloud provider takes care of physical security. Cloud services can be secure by default or you have the ability to configure access down to a granular level.
4. **Reliable** - Data backup, disaster recovery, data replication, and fault tolerance.
5. **Scalable** - Increase or decrease resources an services based on demand.
6. **Elastic** - Automate scaling during spikes and drop in demand.
7. **Current** - The underlying hardware and managed software is patched, upgraded and replaced by the cloud provider without interruption to you.
## References


