25-04-2025 11:00:53

Status : #child

Tags : [[AWS - Cloud Practitioner]]
## Availability Zones

An Availability Zone (AZ) is physical location made up of one or more datacenter.

- A datacenter is a secured building that contains hundreds of thousands of computers.
- A region will generally contain 3 Availability Zones
-  Datacenters within a region will be isolate from each other (different buildings). But they will be close enough to provide low-latency (< 10ms).
- Its common practice to run workloads in at least 3 AZs to ensure services remain available in case one or two datacenters fail. (High Availability)
 - AZs are represented by a Region Code, followed by a letter identifier eg. us-east-la

A **Subnet** is associated with an Availability Zone.
You never choose the AZ when launching resources.
You choose the Subnet which is associated to the AZ.
## [Regions and Zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html)

- Regions has multiple zones
- Availability Zones is made up of one or more datacenters
- AZ's are interconnected with high-bandwidth, low latency networking, over fully redundant, dedicated metro fiber providing high-through put, low-latency networking
- All traffic  between AZ's are encrypted.
- AZ's are within 100kms of each other.

> while we go to regional service such as ec2 we could set the region on the top right corner, and then once to choose the type of ec2 instance you will be given a option to choose the preferred subnet which contains all the availability zones. On the other hand if you see some global service such as S3 bucket you can see there is only a option to choose which region and no the zone. For cloud front you will give option to use all edge  locations or use only North America and Europe or use North America, Europe, Asia, Middle east and Africa.

## References


