25-04-2025 15:28:38

Status : #child 

Tags :

# Fault Tolerance

**What is fault domain?**

A fault domain is a section of a network that is vulnerable to damage if a critical device or system fails. The purpose of a fault domain is that if a failure occurs it will not cascade outside that domain, limiting the damage possible.

You can have fault domains nested inside fault domains.

**what is a fault level?**
Fault level is a collection of fault domain.

The scope of a fault domain could be,
- specific servers in a rack
- an entire rack in datacenters
- an entire room in datacenter
- the entire data center building

> It's up to the cloud provider to define the boundaries of a domain.

| AWS region - Fault Level         | Fault level                    |   us-east-1 (Region)           |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Availability Zone - Fault Domain | Fault Domain - us-east-1a (AZ) | Fault Domain - us-east-1b (AZ) |

Each Amazon Region is designed to be completely **isolated** from the other Amazon Regions.
- This achieves the greatest possible fault tolerance and stability
- Each Availability Zone is **isolated**, but the Availability Zones in a Region are **connected** through *low-latency* links
- Each Availability Zone is designed as an independent failure zone

A "**Failure** **Zone**" is AWS describing a Fault Domain,
- Availability Zones are **physically** **separated** within a typical metropolitan region and are located in lower risk *flood* *plains*
- Discrete **uninterruptible** *power* *supply* (UPS) and onsite backup generation facilities
- Data centers located in different Availability Zones are designed to be supplied by independent substations to reduce the risk of an event on the power grid impacting more than one Availability Zone.
- Availability Zones are all redundantly connected to multiple tier-I transit providers

Multi-AZ for High Availability,
If an application is partitioned across AZs, companies are better isolated and protected from issues such as **power outages, lighting, strikes, tornadoes,** and more

# Global Network

AWS Global network represent the interconnections between AWS Global Infrastructure, aka "**The back bone of AWS**"

Think of it as a private *expressway*, where thing can move very fast between datacenters.

**Edge Locations** can act as *on and off ramps* to AWS Global Network

| On ramp                                                                                                                     | Off ramp                                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| AWS Global Accelertator                                                                                                     | Amazon CloudFront (CDN)                                                                           |
| AWS S3 Tanserfer Acceleration                                                                                               | Uses Edge Locations as an off-ramp, to provide at the Edge storage and compute near the end user. |
| Uses Edge Locations as an on-ramp to quickly reach AWS resources in other regions by traversing the fast AWS Global Network |                                                                                                   |

> **VPC Endpoints** - ensure your resources stay within the AWS Network and do no traverse over the public Internet

## References


