14-06-2025 17:33:52

Status :

Tags :

# Data Residency

### What is Data Residency?

The physical or geographic location of where an organisation or cloud resources reside.

### What is Compliance Boundaries?

A regulatory compliance (legal requirement) by a government or organisation that describes where data and cloud resources are allowed to reside

### what is Data Sovereignty?

Data Sovereignty is the jurisdictional control or legal authority that can be asserted over data because it's physical location is within jurisdictional boundaries.

>The reason we care about this stuff is that if we want to work with the Canadian government or the US government and they're like hey you got to make sure that you know if you want to work with us all the data has to stay in Canada and you need to give them that guarantee so data residency is not a guarantee it just says where your data is right and compliance boundaries are those controls that are in place to say okay this is going to make sure that data stays where we want to be and data of sovereignty is just like the idea of the scope of the legal the legal stuff that ties in with compliance boundaries 

For workload that need to meet compliance boundaries strictly defining the data residency of data and cloud resources in AWS you can use, 
1. **AWS Outposts** is a **physical rack of servers** that you can put in your data center. Your data will reside wherever the Outpost physically resides
2. **AWS Config** is a **Policy as a Code service**. You can create rules to continuously check AWS resource configuration. If they deviate from your expectations your altered or AWS Config can in some cases auto-remediate
3. **IAM Policies** can be written explicitly to deny access to specific AWS Regions
4. **Service Control Policy** are permission applied organisation wide.

## References


